>> Scott Moss: Okay, so
now I'm gonna show you how to query.
So the first thing is,
let's create the school.
So we'll say school =
>> Scott Moss: Await, school.create.
And school only has like a name so,
Mlk Elementary and
then we got that and the next thing
is we're gonna create a student.
So we'll say a student
= await student.create.
And a student has a first name that's
required, and a school that's required.
It's the only required thing,
so I'll do that.
First name is,
Trisha and school.
So remember if we go
back to look at school,
it's type is gonna be
mongoose.schema.type.objectid.
Where did we get that id?
Well, we already created a school, and
we know if we create something in
Mongo we get an id property back.
So we'll just use school.id here or
better yet, just to be explicit,
school._id and we're gonna talk about
the differences between the .id and
_id, but
the short answer is virtualization.
You're gonna be doing virtualization later
on in the course but to be explicit,
you can just use _id.
>> Scott Moss: So now I save the student
with the school and then now, if I were
to query the student later on application
and I want to get the school for it.
The way I would do that is,
I would say awaits,
students, I'm sorry
capital Student.findById,
see where these ID here is
already have an ID, student.ID.
And then subduing the exec right away I'm
gonna use this handy
method called populate.
So, this is why mongoose is really cool,
they have this thing called populate which
are basically like virtual join tables.
So populate's gonna do if I don't pass
it any arguments it's gonna go look
at the schema for the student.
It's gonna look at anything
that has a type Object ID and
a reference to a collection and
it's gonna go query the database for
those and,
inject those values into the field itself.
So, instead of getting back
a school field that's an ID,
I'll get back a school field
that is a school object.
>> Scott Moss: All right, so
if I populate that and then I run exec.
>> Scott Moss: I should get back at
school, or a student with the school so,
let's check that out
>> Scott Moss: I'm sorry,
yeah, I'm thinking of
an older version of Mongoose.
So you do have to pass in
the actual field here by default so
passing the school field here and then it
will go populated, so sorry about that.
So now if I run that again, you can see
now it actually populates the school,
there's an ID, there's the name of the
school, along with the other properties
that I told you that really
aren't that important.
So that's how you would do associations
and relationships in Mongo so you
set up the schema, what the ref and the
type of ObjectId required is up to you and
then you just have to call populate
with the field that you wanna populate.
And then, it will go fetch it for
you, if it finds it and
attach it to that field
It'll basically hydrate it.
It'll turn that ID into a full
object instance if it finds it and
then you'll get it back.